README.md, before:

# htmlToJson

Parses HTML strings into objects using flexible, composable filters.

## Installation

`npm install html-to-json`

## htmlToJson.parse(html, filter, [callback]) -> promise

The `parse()` method takes a string of HTML, and a filter, and responds with the filtered data. This supports both callbacks and promises.

```javascript
var promise = htmlToJson.parse('<div>content</div>', {
  'text': function ($doc) {
    return $doc.find('div').text();
  }
}, function (err, result) {
  console.log(result);
});

promise.done(function (result) {
  //Works as well
});
```

## htmlToJson.request(requestOptions, filter, [callback]) -> promise

The `request()` method takes options for a call to the [request](https://github.com/request/request) library and a filter, then returns the filtered response body.

```javascript
var promise = htmlToJson.request('http://prolificinteractive.com/team', {
  'images': ['img', function ($img) {
    return $img.attr('src');
  }]
}, function (err, result) {
  console.log(result);
});
```

## htmlToJson.batch(html, dictionary, [callback]) -> promise

Performs many parsing operations against one HTML string. This transforms the HTML into a DOM only once instead of for each filter in the dictionary, which can quickly get expensive in terms of processing. This also allows you to break your filters up into more granular components and mix and match them as you please.

The values in the dictionary can be `htmlToJson.Parser` objects, generated methods from `htmlToJson.createMethod`, or naked filters that you might normally pass into `htmlToJson.parse`. For example:

```javascript
return getProlificHomepage().then(function (html) {
  return htmlToJson.batch(html, {
    sections: htmlToJson.createParser(['#primary-nav a', {
      'name': function ($section) {
        return $section.text();
      },
      'link': function ($section) {
        return $section.attr('href');
      }
    }]),
    offices: htmlToJson.createMethod(['.office', {
      'location': function ($office) {
        return $office.find('.location').text();
      },
      'phone': function ($office) {
        return $office.find('.phone').text();
      }
    }]),
    socialInfo: ['#footer .social-link', {
      'name': function ($link) {
        return $link.text();
      },
      'link': function ($link) {
        return $link.attr('href');
      }
    }]
  });
});
```

## htmlToJson.createMethod(filter) -> function (html, [callback])

Generates a method that wraps the passed `filter` argument. The generated method takes an HTML string and processes it against that `filter`.

```javascript
var parseFoo = htmlToJson.createMethod({
  'foo': function ($doc) {
    return $doc.find('#foo').bar();
  }
});
```

## htmlToJson.createParser(filter), new htmlToJson.Parser(filter)

For the sake of reusability, creates an object with `.parse` and `.request` helper methods, which use the passed filter. For example:

```javascript
var linkParser = htmlToJson.createParser(['a[href]', {
  'text': function ($a) {
    return $a.text();
  },
  'href': function ($a) {
    return $a.attr('href');
  }
}]);

linkParser.request('http://prolificinteractive.com').done(function (links) {
  //Do stuff with links
});
```

is equivalent to:

```javascript
linkParser.request('http://prolificinteractive.com', ['a[href]', {
  'text': function ($a) {
    return $a.text();
  },
  'href': function ($a) {
    return $a.attr('href');
  }
}]).done(function (links) {
  //Do stuff with links
});
```

The former allows you to easily reuse the filter (and make it testable), while that latter is a one-off.

### parser.parse(html, [callback])

Parses the passed html argument against the parser's filter.

### parser.method(html, [callback])

Returns a method that wraps `parser.parse()`

### parser.request(requestOptions, [callback])

Makes a request with the request options, then runs the response body through the parser's filter.

## Filter Types

### Functions

The return values of functions are mapped against their corresponding keys. Function filters are passed [cheerio](https://github.com/cheeriojs/cheerio) objects, which allows you to play with a jQuery-like interface.

```javascript
htmlToJson.parse('<div id="foo">foo</div>', {
  'foo1': function ($doc, $) {
    return $doc.find('#foo').text(); //foo
  }
}, callback);
```

### Arrays

Arrays of data can be parsed out by either using the .map() method within a filter function or using the shorthand [selector, filter] syntax:

#### .map(selector, filter)

A filter is applied incrementally against each matched element, and the results are returned within an array.

```javascript
var html = '<div id="items"><div class="item">1</div><div class="item">2</div></div>';

htmlToJson.parse(html, function () {
  return this.map('.item', function ($item) {
    return $item.text();
  });
}).done(function (items) {
  // Items should be: ['1','2']
}, function (err) {
  // Handle error
});
```

#### [selector, filter, after]

This is essentially a short-hand alias for `.map()`, making the filter look more like its output:

```javascript
var html = '<div id="items"><div class="item">1</div><div class="item">2</div></div>';

htmlToJson
  .parse(html, ['.item', function ($item) {
    return $item.text();
  }])
  .done(function (items) {
    // Items should be: ['1','2']
  }, function (err) {
    // Handle error
  });
```

As an added convenience you can pass in a 3rd argument into the array filter, which allows you to manipulate the results. You can return a promise if you wish to do an asynchronous operation.

```javascript
var html = '<div id="items"><div class="item">1</div><div class="item">2</div></div>';

htmlToJson
  .parse(html, ['.item', function ($item) {
    return +$item.text();
  }, function (items) {
    return _.map(items, function (item) {
      return item * 3;
    });
  }])
  .done(function (items) {
    // Items should be: [3,6]
  }, function (err) {
    // Handle error
  });
```

### Asynchronous filters

Filter functions may also return promises, which get resolved asynchronously.

```javascript
function getProductDetails (id, callback) {
  return htmlToJson.request({
    uri: 'http://store.prolificinteractive.com/products/' + id
  }, {
    'id': function ($doc) {
      return $doc.find('#product-details').attr('data-id');
    },
    'colors': ['.color', {
      'id': function ($color) {
        return $color.attr('data-id');
      },
      'hex': function ($color) {
        return $color.css('background-color');
      }
    }]
  }, callback);
}

function getProducts (callback) {
  return htmlToJson.request({
    uri: 'http://store.prolificinteractive.com'
  }, ['.product', {
    'id': function ($product) {
      return $product.attr('data-id');
    },
    'image': function ($product) {
      return $product.find('img').attr('src');
    },
    'colors': function ($product) {
      // This is where we use a promise to get the colors asynchronously
      return this
        .get('id')
        .then(function (id) {
          return getProductDetails(id).get('colors');
        });
    }
  }], callback);
}
```

### Dependencies on other values

Filter functions may use the `.get(propertyName)` to use a value from another key in that filter. This returns a promise representing the value rather than the value itself.

```javascript
function getProducts (callback) {
  return htmlToJson.request('http://store.prolificinteractive.com', ['.product', {
    'id': function ($product) {
      return $product.attr('data-id');
    },
    'image': function ($product) {
      return $product.find('img').attr('src');
    },
    'colors': function ($product) {
      // Resolve 'id' then get product details with it
      return this
        .get('id')
        .then(function (id) {
          return getProductDetails(id).get('colors');
        });
    }
  }], callback);
}
```

### Objects

Nested objects within a filter are run against the same HTML context as the parent filter.

```javascript
var html = '<div id="foo"><div id="bar">foobar</div></div>';

htmlToJson.parse(html, {
  'foo': {
    'bar': function ($doc) {
      return $doc.find('#bar').text();
    }
  }
});
```

#### $container modifier

You may specify a more specific DOM context by setting the $container property on the object filter:

```javascript
var html = '<div id="foo"><div id="bar">foobar</div></div>';

htmlToJson.parse(html, {
  'foo': {
    $container: '#foo',
    'bar': function ($foo) {
      return $foo.find('#bar').text();
    }
  }
});
```

### Constants

Strings, numbers, and null values are simply used as the filter's value. This especially comes in handy for incrementally converting from mock data to parsed data.

```javascript
htmlToJson.parse('<div id="nada"></div>', {
  x: 1,
  y: 'string value',
  z: null
});
```

## Contributing

First make sure you have the grunt command line installed globally:

`sudo npm install -g grunt-cli`

### Running Tests

Tests are written in mocha and located in the `test` directory. Run them with grunt:

`grunt test`

### Code Standards

#### Linting

Before committing, run `grunt lint` and fix any warnings.

#### Style

Before committing, make sure to run `grunt beautify`.

Commit message:

Remove dependency on grunt to execute tests; bump minor version

README.md, after:

# htmlToJson

Parses HTML strings into objects using flexible, composable filters.

## Installation

`npm install html-to-json`

## htmlToJson.parse(html, filter, [callback]) -> promise

The `parse()` method takes a string of HTML, and a filter, and responds with the filtered data. This supports both callbacks and promises.

```javascript
var promise = htmlToJson.parse('<div>content</div>', {
  'text': function ($doc) {
    return $doc.find('div').text();
  }
}, function (err, result) {
  console.log(result);
});

promise.done(function (result) {
  //Works as well
});
```

## htmlToJson.request(requestOptions, filter, [callback]) -> promise

The `request()` method takes options for a call to the [request](https://github.com/request/request) library and a filter, then returns the filtered response body.

```javascript
var promise = htmlToJson.request('http://prolificinteractive.com/team', {
  'images': ['img', function ($img) {
    return $img.attr('src');
  }]
}, function (err, result) {
  console.log(result);
});
```

## htmlToJson.batch(html, dictionary, [callback]) -> promise

Performs many parsing operations against one HTML string. This transforms the HTML into a DOM only once instead of for each filter in the dictionary, which can quickly get expensive in terms of processing. This also allows you to break your filters up into more granular components and mix and match them as you please.

The values in the dictionary can be `htmlToJson.Parser` objects, generated methods from `htmlToJson.createMethod`, or naked filters that you might normally pass into `htmlToJson.parse`. For example:

```javascript
return getProlificHomepage().then(function (html) {
  return htmlToJson.batch(html, {
    sections: htmlToJson.createParser(['#primary-nav a', {
      'name': function ($section) {
        return $section.text();
      },
      'link': function ($section) {
        return $section.attr('href');
      }
    }]),
    offices: htmlToJson.createMethod(['.office', {
      'location': function ($office) {
        return $office.find('.location').text();
      },
      'phone': function ($office) {
        return $office.find('.phone').text();
      }
    }]),
    socialInfo: ['#footer .social-link', {
      'name': function ($link) {
        return $link.text();
      },
      'link': function ($link) {
        return $link.attr('href');
      }
    }]
  });
});
```

## htmlToJson.createMethod(filter) -> function (html, [callback])

Generates a method that wraps the passed `filter` argument. The generated method takes an HTML string and processes it against that `filter`.

```javascript
var parseFoo = htmlToJson.createMethod({
  'foo': function ($doc) {
    return $doc.find('#foo').bar();
  }
});
```

## htmlToJson.createParser(filter), new htmlToJson.Parser(filter)

For the sake of reusability, creates an object with `.parse` and `.request` helper methods, which use the passed filter. For example:

```javascript
var linkParser = htmlToJson.createParser(['a[href]', {
  'text': function ($a) {
    return $a.text();
  },
  'href': function ($a) {
    return $a.attr('href');
  }
}]);

linkParser.request('http://prolificinteractive.com').done(function (links) {
  //Do stuff with links
});
```

is equivalent to:

```javascript
linkParser.request('http://prolificinteractive.com', ['a[href]', {
  'text': function ($a) {
    return $a.text();
  },
  'href': function ($a) {
    return $a.attr('href');
  }
}]).done(function (links) {
  //Do stuff with links
});
```

The former allows you to easily reuse the filter (and make it testable), while that latter is a one-off.

### parser.parse(html, [callback])

Parses the passed html argument against the parser's filter.

### parser.method(html, [callback])

Returns a method that wraps `parser.parse()`

### parser.request(requestOptions, [callback])

Makes a request with the request options, then runs the response body through the parser's filter.

## Filter Types

### Functions

The return values of functions are mapped against their corresponding keys. Function filters are passed [cheerio](https://github.com/cheeriojs/cheerio) objects, which allows you to play with a jQuery-like interface.

```javascript
htmlToJson.parse('<div id="foo">foo</div>', {
  'foo1': function ($doc, $) {
    return $doc.find('#foo').text(); //foo
  }
}, callback);
```

### Arrays

Arrays of data can be parsed out by either using the .map() method within a filter function or using the shorthand [selector, filter] syntax:

#### .map(selector, filter)

A filter is applied incrementally against each matched element, and the results are returned within an array.

```javascript
var html = '<div id="items"><div class="item">1</div><div class="item">2</div></div>';

htmlToJson.parse(html, function () {
  return this.map('.item', function ($item) {
    return $item.text();
  });
}).done(function (items) {
  // Items should be: ['1','2']
}, function (err) {
  // Handle error
});
```

#### [selector, filter, after]

This is essentially a short-hand alias for `.map()`, making the filter look more like its output:

```javascript
var html = '<div id="items"><div class="item">1</div><div class="item">2</div></div>';

htmlToJson
  .parse(html, ['.item', function ($item) {
    return $item.text();
  }])
  .done(function (items) {
    // Items should be: ['1','2']
  }, function (err) {
    // Handle error
  });
```

As an added convenience you can pass in a 3rd argument into the array filter, which allows you to manipulate the results. You can return a promise if you wish to do an asynchronous operation.

```javascript
var html = '<div id="items"><div class="item">1</div><div class="item">2</div></div>';

htmlToJson
  .parse(html, ['.item', function ($item) {
    return +$item.text();
  }, function (items) {
    return _.map(items, function (item) {
      return item * 3;
    });
  }])
  .done(function (items) {
    // Items should be: [3,6]
  }, function (err) {
    // Handle error
  });
```

### Asynchronous filters

Filter functions may also return promises, which get resolved asynchronously.

```javascript
function getProductDetails (id, callback) {
  return htmlToJson.request({
    uri: 'http://store.prolificinteractive.com/products/' + id
  }, {
    'id': function ($doc) {
      return $doc.find('#product-details').attr('data-id');
    },
    'colors': ['.color', {
      'id': function ($color) {
        return $color.attr('data-id');
      },
      'hex': function ($color) {
        return $color.css('background-color');
      }
    }]
  }, callback);
}

function getProducts (callback) {
  return htmlToJson.request({
    uri: 'http://store.prolificinteractive.com'
  }, ['.product', {
    'id': function ($product) {
      return $product.attr('data-id');
    },
    'image': function ($product) {
      return $product.find('img').attr('src');
    },
    'colors': function ($product) {
      // This is where we use a promise to get the colors asynchronously
      return this
        .get('id')
        .then(function (id) {
          return getProductDetails(id).get('colors');
        });
    }
  }], callback);
}
```

### Dependencies on other values

Filter functions may use the `.get(propertyName)` to use a value from another key in that filter. This returns a promise representing the value rather than the value itself.

```javascript
function getProducts (callback) {
  return htmlToJson.request('http://store.prolificinteractive.com', ['.product', {
    'id': function ($product) {
      return $product.attr('data-id');
    },
    'image': function ($product) {
      return $product.find('img').attr('src');
    },
    'colors': function ($product) {
      // Resolve 'id' then get product details with it
      return this
        .get('id')
        .then(function (id) {
          return getProductDetails(id).get('colors');
        });
    }
  }], callback);
}
```

### Objects

Nested objects within a filter are run against the same HTML context as the parent filter.

```javascript
var html = '<div id="foo"><div id="bar">foobar</div></div>';

htmlToJson.parse(html, {
  'foo': {
    'bar': function ($doc) {
      return $doc.find('#bar').text();
    }
  }
});
```

#### $container modifier

You may specify a more specific DOM context by setting the $container property on the object filter:

```javascript
var html = '<div id="foo"><div id="bar">foobar</div></div>';

htmlToJson.parse(html, {
  'foo': {
    $container: '#foo',
    'bar': function ($foo) {
      return $foo.find('#bar').text();
    }
  }
});
```

### Constants

Strings, numbers, and null values are simply used as the filter's value. This especially comes in handy for incrementally converting from mock data to parsed data.

```javascript
htmlToJson.parse('<div id="nada"></div>', {
  x: 1,
  y: 'string value',
  z: null
});
```

## Contributing

### Running Tests

Tests are written in mocha and located in the `test` directory. Run them with:

`npm test`

This script also executes `jshint` against `lib/` and `test/` directories.

### Style

Please read the existing code in order to learn the conventions.
